# Software Engineer Locations: Top Cities for Tech Jobs in 2024

Written by [Camdyn Zook](https://growprogramming.com/author/czook/) in
[General Info](https://growprogramming.com/category/general-
info/),[Uncategorized](https://growprogramming.com/category/uncategorized/)
Last Updated January 9, 2024

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg%20xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'%20viewBox='0%200%202560%201707'%3E%3C/svg%3E)

[](https://growprogramming.com/software-engineer-locations/)

Software engineering is a highly sought-after profession, and software
engineers are in high demand across the globe. There are a lot of software
engineer locations that are viable to live in. The role of a software engineer
involves designing, developing, and maintaining software applications.
Software engineers can work in a variety of industries, including healthcare,
finance, and technology.

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg%20xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'%20viewBox='0%200%201024%20585'%3E%3C/svg%3E)

Table of Contents

Toggle

  * Software Engineer Locations in the United States
    * In-Office & Hybrid Software Engineer Locations
    * Remote Software Engineering Jobs
  * International Software Engineer Locations
    * Remote International Software Engineering Jobs
  * Cost of Living for Software Engineers
  * Wages and Benefits for Software Engineers
  * Impact of Covid-19 on Software Engineering Locations
  * Frequently Asked Questions
    * What are the best cities for software engineers in 2022?
    * Which countries are the best for software engineers to work?
    * What are the highest paying cities for software engineers in the USA?
    * What are the highest paying cities for software engineers in the world?
    * Which companies are among the top 50 for software engineers?
    * Where is the best place to work as a software engineer?
    * References:

## Software Engineer Locations in the United States

As a [software engineer](https://growprogramming.com/should-i-be-a-software-
developer-or-software-engineer/), you have the option to work remotely or in
an office environment. In the United States, there are many cities with a high
demand for software engineers, and each city has its own unique benefits. Here
are some of the best locations for software engineers in the United States.

### In-Office & Hybrid Software Engineer Locations

Whether you have a full-time in-office job or hybrid job, you will have to
live close to your job. Hybrid [software engineering
jobs](https://growprogramming.com/software-developer-vs-software-
engineer-2023-difference-in-skills-jobs-salary-and-more/) allow software
engineers to work both remotely and in an office environment. This gives them
the flexibility to work from home when they need to, while also being able to
collaborate with their colleagues in person. Some of the best software
engineer locations for engineers that need be near their job are listed below.

**1\. Greater Seattle, WA Area ‚Äì $225,000  
**

Seattle has boomed in recent years. With a median software engineering salary
of $225,00 (according to [level.fyi‚Äôs 2023
report](https://www.levels.fyi/2023/?from=home_page_prompt)). Doesn‚Äôt Silicon
Valley pay more? Yes, but with Washington state having an effective tax rate
of 10.3% (8.8% w/out property taxes). This means that software engineers can
take home most of their incomes.

**2\. Greater San Francisco, CA Area ‚Äì $244,000  
**

HUH?! How can this be? The San Francisco area is the most expensive place to
live in the United States? Well‚Ä¶ because the salaries are that much higher
over there. Silicon Valley continues to produce and attract top software
engineering talent. According to the ‚Äú[levels.fyi End of Year Pay Report
2023‚Ä≥](https://www.levels.fyi/2023/download.html), the median software
engineer salary in San Francisco is $244,00. Using a cost-of-living adjustment
to compare all US cities, San Francisco continues to offer the most value
compared to the rest. The value continues to grow when you use tax-advantaged
accounts (401k, 403b, HSA, etc‚Ä¶), and since your salary is generally higher,
your employer match on 3-6% of your income will be higher compared to other
places. Remember to always compare your salary to websites like levels.fyi or
Glassdoor to make sure you are getting compensated fairly.

**3\. Greater Austin, TX Area ‚Äì $167,000  
**

Since 2018, Texas has been the culprit of attracting the most new residents.
People from Cali and New York move to the lone star state and they bring
Silicon Valley and Wall Street with them. Texas having the #6 overall tax
burden in the USA of 8.6%. This software engineering locations has a salary of
$167,000 in Austin, TX (levels.fyi). That is only 1k below Los Angeles, CA,
but with 5% less in taxes.

**4\. Greater Denver/Boulder, CO Area ‚Äì $154,000  
**

Denver is a nice middle ground between salary, taxes, cost of living, and
quality of life. I have been looking for jobs in this area for quite a long
time and I am really liking what I am seeing. Definitely a place to look at.

**5\. Northern Virginia/Washington DC Area ‚Äì $148,000  
**

This is probably my hottest take, but since I am currently in the Defense and
Intelligence Contracting industry, I have seen a huge spike in Engineer jobs
in DC paying very, very well. The only caveat is that the highest paying jobs
usually rely on getting a USA Security Clearance which means these jobs become
extremely difficult to get.

<https://www.youtube.com/shorts/J88fOMC_o14>Video can‚Äôt be loaded because
JavaScript is disabled: [3 Places you can find a remote job üë©‚Äçüíªüåé #technology
#programming #career #wfh #productivity
(https://www.youtube.com/shorts/J88fOMC_o14)](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/J88fOMC_o14
"3 Places you can find a remote job üë©‚Äçüíªüåé #technology #programming #career #wfh
#productivity")

### Remote Software Engineering Jobs

Remote software engineering jobs are becoming increasingly popular in the
United States. With the rise of technology, many companies are allowing their
employees to work from home. This allows software engineers to work from
anywhere in the country, without having to worry about relocating.

Having this much freedom with a job, actually comes down too what are your
values. If its money, rural Tennessee and Wyoming probably is where your cost
of living and taxes are the lowest. In the end make sure you are living in a
location that you value.

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg%20xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'%20viewBox='0%200%201024%20585'%3E%3C/svg%3E)

## International Software Engineer Locations

Software engineering is a global industry, and there are many opportunities
for international software engineer jobs. Whether you are looking for a
permanent position abroad or a short-term contract, there are many options
available.

### Remote International Software Engineering Jobs

Remote work is becoming increasingly popular in the software engineering
industry, and there are many opportunities for international remote work. Many
companies are open to hiring remote workers from anywhere in the world, which
means that you can work from the comfort of your own home while still enjoying
the benefits of an international job.

Some of the benefits of remote international software engineering jobs
include:

  * Flexibility: You can work from anywhere in the world, which means that you can work from home or while traveling.
  * Competitive pay: Many companies offer competitive pay for remote workers, which means that you can earn a good salary while working from home.
  * Global experience: Working with international teams can give you valuable experience working with people from different cultures and backgrounds.

If you are interested in remote international software engineering jobs, there
are many websites that can help you find opportunities. Some popular websites
include Indeed, Remote.co, and FlexJobs.

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg%20xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'%20viewBox='0%200%201024%20585'%3E%3C/svg%3E)

## Cost of Living for Software Engineers

One crucial factor to consider when choosing a location as a software engineer
is the cost of living. The cost of living can significantly impact your
overall earnings, especially if you are working in a high-paying city with a
high cost of living.

According to a [data-backed analysis](https://arc.dev/employer-blog/best-
cities-for-software-engineers/) by ARC, the best cities for software engineers
in terms of cost of living are Raleigh, Austin, and Columbus. These cities
offer a lower cost of living than other tech hubs like San Francisco and
Seattle, which can make a significant difference in your overall earnings.

Rent is a significant expense for many software engineers, and it is essential
to consider when evaluating the cost of living. According to
[Salary.com](https://www.salary.com/research/salary/general/software-engineer-
salary), the average rent for a one-bedroom apartment in San Francisco is
$3,700 per month, while in Raleigh, it is $1,200 per month. This significant
difference in rent can make a significant impact on your overall earnings.

It is also important to consider other factors that contribute to the cost of
living, such as transportation, food, and entertainment. For example, cities
like New York and San Francisco have a higher cost of living due to their high
transportation costs and expensive restaurants and entertainment options.

In summary, the cost of living is a crucial factor to consider when choosing a
location as a software engineer. It can significantly impact your overall
earnings, and it is essential to consider factors such as rent,
transportation, food, and entertainment when evaluating the cost of living in
different cities.

![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg%20xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'%20viewBox='0%200%201024%20585'%3E%3C/svg%3E)

## Wages and Benefits for Software Engineers

Software engineering is one of the most lucrative and in-demand fields in the
tech industry. As of 2024, the average salary for a software engineer in
California is $140,450 per year, according to Indeed
[[1]](https://www.indeed.com/career/software-engineer/salaries/CA). However,
the salary range can vary widely depending on factors such as education,
certifications, years of experience, and location.

In San Jose, California, the average salary for a Software Engineer I is
$95,115 per year
[[2]](https://www.salary.com/research/salary/benchmark/software-engineer-i-
salary/san-jose-ca). The range can vary between $87,179 and $104,559,
depending on the same factors mentioned above.

According to Glassdoor [[3]](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/software-
engineer-salary-SRCH_KO0,17.htm), the national average salary for a software
engineer in the United States is $92,046 per year. However, the salary can
range from $66,000 to $140,000 per year, depending on the same factors
mentioned above.

Benefits for software engineers can vary depending on the company and
location. Some common benefits include health insurance, retirement plans,
paid time off, and bonuses. Many tech companies also offer perks such as free
snacks, gym memberships, and flexible work schedules.

In addition to base salary and benefits, software engineers can also receive
stock options and bonuses based on company performance. According to
Entrepreneur [[4]](https://www.entrepreneur.com/business-news/google-salary-
data-leak-shows-employee-compensation-in-2022/456092), software engineers at
Google earn the highest base salary, maximum equity, and bonuses among the top
10 highest-paying positions in engineering, business, and sales.

Overall, software engineering is a highly competitive and rewarding field with
great potential for growth and development. With the right education, skills,
and experience, software engineers can earn a high salary and enjoy many
benefits and perks

##
![](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg%20xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'%20viewBox='0%200%20640%20366'%3E%3C/svg%3E)

## Impact of Covid-19 on Software Engineering Locations

The Covid-19 pandemic has had a significant impact on the [software
engineering industry](https://growprogramming.com/software-engineers-with-
adhd-thriving-in-the-tech-industry/), with many companies shifting to remote
work or hybrid models. These changes have affected the way software engineers
work, collaborate, and communicate with their teams.

One of the biggest impacts of Covid-19 on software engineering jobs has been
the shift to remote work. Many software engineers are now working from home,
which has both positive and negative effects. On the one hand, remote work
allows for more flexibility and can help software engineers achieve a better
work-life balance. On the other hand, remote work can be isolating and can
make it more difficult to collaborate with team members.

Another impact of Covid-19 on software engineering jobs has been the shift to
hybrid models. Some companies are now offering a combination of remote and in-
person work, which can provide the benefits of both models. However, hybrid
models can also be challenging to manage and may require additional resources
to ensure that everyone is on the same page.

In addition to these changes, Covid-19 has also affected the demand for
software engineering jobs. Some companies have had to reduce their workforce
due to financial constraints, while others have seen an increased demand for
software engineers as more businesses move online.

Overall, the impact of Covid-19 on software engineering jobs has been
significant, and it is likely that these changes will continue to shape the
industry for years to come. As software engineers adapt to new working models
and companies adjust their hiring practices, it is important to stay informed
and be prepared for whatever the future may hold.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### What are the best cities for software engineers in 2022?

According to [Indeed](https://www.indeed.com/career/software-engineer/faq),
some of the best cities for software engineers in the USA are San Francisco,
Seattle, New York City, and Boston. These cities have a high demand for
software engineers and offer competitive salaries.

### Which countries are the best for software engineers to work?

Software engineers can find opportunities in many countries around the world.
According to [Business Insider](https://www.businessinsider.com/best-
countries-for-software-engineers-2019-4), some of the best countries for
software engineers to work are the USA, Canada, Germany, the UK, and
Australia. These countries have a strong technology industry and offer
competitive salaries.

### What are the highest paying cities for software engineers in the USA?

According to [Indeed](https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-
development/highest-paying-cities-for-software-engineers), some of the highest
paying cities for software engineers in the USA are San Francisco, Seattle,
San Jose, New York City, and Boston. These cities offer high salaries to
software engineers due to the high demand for their skills.

### What are the highest paying cities for software engineers in the world?

According to [Business Insider](https://www.businessinsider.com/highest-
paying-cities-for-software-engineers-2019-4), some of the highest paying
cities for software engineers in the world are San Francisco, Seattle, Zurich,
New York City, and Boston. These cities offer high salaries to software
engineers due to the high demand for their skills and the high cost of living.

### Which companies are among the top 50 for software engineers?

According to [CNBC](https://www.cnbc.com/2021/06/15/the-50-best-companies-for-
software-engineers-to-work-for-in-2021.html), some of the top 50 companies for
software engineers to work for in 2021 are Adobe, Amazon, Apple, Facebook,
Google, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, and Salesforce. These companies offer
competitive salaries, benefits, and opportunities for growth.

### Where is the best place to work as a software engineer?

The best place to work as a software engineer depends on individual
preferences and priorities. Some software engineers prefer to work for large
tech companies in major cities, while others prefer to work for startups or
smaller companies in more affordable locations. It is important to research
and compare different companies and locations to find the best fit.

### References:

  1. [Software engineer salary in California ‚Äì Indeed](https://www.indeed.com/career/software-engineer/salaries/CA)
  2. [Software Engineer I Salary in San Jose, CA | Salary.com](https://www.salary.com/research/salary/benchmark/software-engineer-i-salary/san-jose-ca)
  3. [Software Engineer Salaries | Glassdoor](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/software-engineer-salary-SRCH_KO0,17.htm)
  4. [Google Salary Data Leak Shows Employee Compensation in 2022 ‚Äì Entrepreneur](https://www.entrepreneur.com/business-news/google-salary-data-leak-shows-employee-compensation-in-2022/456092)

